Credit card fraud is a wide-ranging term for theft and fraud committed using or involving a payment card, such as a credit card or debit card, as a fraudulent source of funds in a transaction. The purpose may be to obtain goods without paying, or to obtain unauthorized funds from an account. Credit card fraud is also an adjunct to identity theft. According to the United States Federal Trade Commission, while the rate of identity theft had been holding steady during the mid-2000’s, it increased by 21 percent in 2008. However, credit card fraud, that crime which most people associate with ID theft, decreased as a percentage of all ID theft complaints for the sixth year in a row.

Anomaly detection is a technique used to identify unusual patterns that do not conform to expected behavior, called outliers. It has many applications in business, from intrusion detection (identifying strange patterns in network traffic that could signal a hack) to system health monitoring (spotting a malignant tumor in an MRI scan), and from fraud detection in credit card transactions to fault detection in operating environments. Isolation Forest based Anomaly detection

1.Isolation forest is an unsupervised learning algorithm for anomaly detection that works on the principle of isolating anomalies, instead of the most common techniques of profiling normal points. Anomalies in a big dataset may follow very complicated patterns, which are difficult to detect “by eye” in the great majority of cases. This is the reason why the field of anomaly detection is well suited for the application of Machine Learning techniques. Isolation Forest uses a different approach: instead of trying to build a model of normal instances, it explicitly isolates anomalous points in the dataset. The main advantage of this approach is the possibility of exploiting sampling techniques to an extent that is not allowed to the profile-based methods, creating a very fast algorithm with a low memory demand.

2.Local Outlier Factor (LOF) Algorithm
The LOF algorithm is an unsupervised outlier detection method which computes the local density deviation of a given data point with respect to its neighbors. It considers as outlier samples that have a substantially lower density than their neighbors. The number of neighbors considered, (parameter n_neighbors) is typically chosen 1) greater than the minimum number of objects a cluster has to contain, so that other objects can be local outliers relative to this cluster, and 2) smaller than the maximum number of close by objects that can potentially be local outliers. In practice, such information is generally not available, and taking n_neighbors=20 appears to work well in general.

Data used - The data set is highly skewed, consisting of 492 frauds in a total of 284,807 observations. This resulted in only 0.172% fraud cases. This skewed set is justified by the low number of fraudulent transactions. The dataset consists of numerical values from the 28 ‘Principal Component Analysis (PCA)’ transformed features, namely V1 to V28. Furthermore, there is no metadata about the original features provided, so pre- analysis or feature study could not be done. The ‘Time’ and ‘Amount’ features are not transformed data. There is no missing value in the dataset.
